# Negatives Effects of increasing life expectancy

With the rise of modern medicine, life expectancy has increased over the last 
decades. 50 years ago, it was quite a feat to live past 70 years old, but today, 
living past that age has become the norm. For most of us, this increase in 
life expectancy is welcome: we have more time to do things with the people we 
love. However, the same cannot be said for society. These additional 20 years 
have created a financial burden that tax payers have yet to overcome. There 
are too few workers for the many retirees. Consequently, our government is 
faced with a dilemma: what amount should today's retirees get?

To answer this question, we must first understand how pension works. In Canada, 
pension money comes from a "give-back" model. Every time a worker gets a 
paycheck, the state take a certain percentage of the employee salary to 
fund the pension. The money taken is then redistributed among today's retirees. 
Therefore, the money you pay today is not necessarily the money you get when you 
retire. Fortunately, over the years, an intergenerational rule has been put 
in-place: we want retiree pension to amount about what they contributed across 
the year. However, with the aging of the population, this unwritten rule 
has become less and less true. Government is now faced with these two 
alternatives: either they opt for a retiree-based policy, where workers pay more 
in tax so that the retiree may get what they contributed over the years, or they 
can choose to adopt a worker-based policy, where taxpayers contribute as much 
as the previous generation did, but the current retirees touch less money than 
they contributed. Either way, one of the two parties will be dissatisfied.

Governments are aware of this stake. If they choose to side with the elders, 
they will likely have more support than if they were to choose the younger 
generation, but that decision will only report the problem for later: the same 
problem will arise when we will get old enough to get our pension. On the 
other side, if they decide to side with us, they may lose elders vote and might 
even lose the election and won't even get to make the policy.

To overcome this problem, what we need is to generate more money. There are a 
few ways to do so: 
1. Increase education: if younger people are more educated, they will likely 
   earn more money and will pay more in tax
2. Encourage immigrations: if more people enter the workforce, more people will 
   be able to pay tax, thus decreasing the burden on each individuals.

However, these solutions may pose a few problems. First of all, an increase 
in education may increase tax revenues, but may also increase government spending 
which negate the effect of the change in the first place. Secondly, if we 
decide to go with the latter option, we are only moving the problem from one 
region to another: it won't be us that have this problem, but our neighbor, 
which isn't productive.

In the end, solving the pension fund dilemma is not an easy task, but I much 
rather have this problem than have the life expectancy be reduced back to 50 
years old.

