# Opening Paragraphs Practices: climate change, celebrity and torture




**Exercice 1: The warming of the planet is the most serious issue that faces mankind today**

Since the creation of the government, poverty, crime, healthcare 
and education have been issues that were predominant. Nowadays, our society 
face a silent killer: global warming. Industrialized countries have recognized 
that our carbon emissions will derail our future by creating economic and 
social problems, yet we fail to act on the long-term goals we have set to delay 
the consequences of our consumptions.


- we have tons of issues, but why is global warming should be act upon faster 
  than poverty, education and healthcare
- we can solve global warming with education and solving poverty

I tackle the wrong problem here. 'Most serious' means that I should argue that 
global warming is a more important issues than the other we faced, not argue 
that global warming is an issue. La question sous-entend que global 
warming est un issue, pas besoin de justifier.

https://www.un.org/sg/en/content/sg/speeches/2008-12-11/opening-statement-high-level-segment-un-climate-change-conference

**Exercice 2: Celebrity culture is a prominent and unwelcome feature of contemporary society.**

With the rise of Instagram, Tik Tok and Twitch, influencers and celebrities 
have taken a more predominant place in our life. We watch them during our lunch 
break and are invested in their life, as they are both a source of entertainment 
and discussion for small talk in the office. However, this behavior of 
contemporary society should not be welcomed.


- premisse: celebrity culture is prominent
- a defendre: it is an unwelcome behavior because ... (1) harmful (2)


**Exercice 3: Torture can never be condoned in any circumstances by a civilised country.**

Different culture have different ways to punish wrongdoings. In the eastern 
culture, the 'an eye for an eye' rule has been the norm, as the judicial 
system isn't as prominent. In the western culture, we hope that the inmates 
can be rehabilitated in prison, as we think that everyone deserve a second 
chance. Yet, torture is still a common practice not as a punishment, but 
as a mean to retrieve information. In Guantanamo, FBI agents still use these 
stategies in the hopes of getting information that we couldn't otherwise. 
However, I will argue that torture should be condoned in any circunstumstances 
in a civilized culture, as we live upon the principle of democracy and liberty, 
and because it has been shown that torture give unreliable information.


**Exercice 4: Should the speed limit on Britain’s motorways be raised or lowered?**

With around 3 deaths related to vehicle collisions per 100,000 inhabitants per 
year, most western countries have adopted some types of policies to reduce the 
risk of vehicle fatalities. One of the most popular policies has been to 
implement a speed limit on the highway, generally around 110 kmh in Britain.
Much like any policies, this number still sparks some debates. Some think that 
this number should be lowered, as it could prevent even more accidents whilst 
others would rather see that number raised, as it would allow them to 
travel faster from one place to another. To determine wether we need to 
raise or lower the speed limit imposed, we should (1) understand how speed 
influence the risk of vehicle fatalities and (2) understand how much time 
would be saved in the event that the speed limit should be raised. We will 
see that even though increasing the speed limit by 10 km would save about 
30 minutes of commute, the safety of the drivers would greatly be raised.


- why lower: on veut imposer une limite de vitesse pour diminuer les accidents; 
- why raise: go to places faster, more fun to race
- etude de cas: (1) allemagne: pas plus d'accidents malgré pas de limites 
  (2) britain:
- la limite de vitesse n'est pas un facteur important pour les accidents 
  dans les routes en ligne droite


**Exercice 5: The use of animals in medical research should be totally banned**



- medical research requires trial treatments to see wether a medicament is 
  beneficial or not, and we need cobaye to test our treatment on
- human life is worth more than animal life
- animal pain should be minimized
- to defend: the hopes of creating a treatment that cure ___ is greater than 
  the pain we inflict on animals, and thus justify the use of animals in 
  medical research


**Exercice 6: There is such a thing as the “the glass ceiling” for women in employment situations. Legislation should be introduced to make sure women are granted more access to the top jobs**





**REVIEW**

1. (1) define the debate that we have (2) the opinions/who is around the debate
2. When reading the question, identify the problem/intuition that we want to 
   takle. Identify (1) the premisse (2) what position I should defend




